---
title: 'A Fresh Start'
date: '1/22/2023'
description: 'Back from a long and relaxing winter break, I start the semester with a busy but promising first week.'
genre: 'Reflection'
tags: 'Weekly'
---

Hello. This blog is my very first one, and I aim to write one every so often to discuss the things I've been up to. Specifically,
it'll provide a broad overview of the things I learned/did in my coursework, as well as any other details I find noteworthy.

## Takeaways From Coursework
* **CSCE 313: Introduction to Computer Systems**

    This is a course about low-level C/C++ programming concerning things related to processes, multi-threading,
    and details about operating systems. My impression is that this is going to be my most time-consuming
    course this semester. Our first project, split into three parts, is already due next week. As such, I started
    on it early and finished it this morning. 

    The project is about controlling a rover trapped within a large cave system. The rover can't move
    across the cave very efficiently, and it thus sends many robots to visit other rooms and attempt to find the exit.
    At least, that's the high-level picture of the problem; the actual implementation involves handling multiple processes
    and communicating between them. So far, I've gotten connecting between processes (pipes) to work. Next, I'll have to
    implement the actual search algorithms and then get multi-threading to work. Exciting...

    Notes:
    * <u>Little Endian vs Big Endian</u>
        The gist of this concept is that data, when stored in RAM, can be saved either in original order (*Big Endian*)
        or reverse order (*Little Endian*).
    * <u>The C/C++ `#pragma` Directive</u>
        The `#pragma` directive enables one to turn features on or off in a C/C++ program. Some useful features include
        * `#pragma once`: ensures that the given header file is included only once per inheriting file.
        * `#pragma pack(push, 1)` and `#pragma pack(pop)`: ensures that the compiler does not pad the bytes of a variable.
        This is because, even if an int has 4 bytes, the compiler could pad it to be 8 bytes for alignment. Anything included
        between these two directives will be ensured to not have padding.
    * <u>BFS, bFS, and A*</u>
        BFS (breadth-first-search) is a common algorithm for searching a graph. It performs a level-by-level search.
        Dijkstra's algorithm is a variation of BFS that uses a priority queue, which keeps track of the vertex with current
        minimum distance from the source node. It is guaranteed to give a correct shortest path as long as there are no negative edges.

        bFS (best-first-search) is similar but it instead uses a heuristic (greedy) approach, that unlike Dijkstra's algorithm,
        will produce a result that may not be the shortest/best path. Its heuristic is that it can estimate a node's distance to the destination and thus uses a priority queue organized on this basis. The algorithm is faster in comparison. 

        The problem with bFS is that it can get distracted by its heuristic function. In the case of a robot searching for an exit in a cave, we can use a heuristic function that prioritizes caves with bright lights, since this implies that they are near an exit. This means it can get distracted and go on overly long paths chasing bright rooms that lead nowhere.

        A* is an algorithm that bridges bFS and Dijkstra's. It uses a more balanced priority that takes into consideration both the heuristic and the currently recorded distance of a given node from the source. 
    * <u>Pipes</u>
* **CSCE 421: Machine Learning**

    This is a course about Machine Learning (obviously), and it covers topics ranging from more foundational machine learning
    to deep learning and neural networks. I'm hoping this course will fill in the gaps of knowledge in my machine learning
    background as I continue my self studies/research project.

    Notes:
    * <u>Model Evaluation: Balanced Accuracy, TPR/TNR/FPR/FNR, Confusion Matrix, etc.</u>
    * <u>AUC-ROC</u>
* **CHEM 328: Physical Chemistry II**

    This is a course about chemical thermodynamics and kinetics. The material has so far been quite fascinating: we learned how,
    using simple physics and the Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution, one can derive the Ideal Gas Law entirely from a theoretical approach.
    This and other concepts related to gases have been the focus of the class this week.

    Notes:
    * <u>Kinetic Model</u>
    * <u>Potential Energy Functions For Modelling Real Gases</u>
* **CSCE 315: Programming Studio**

    I don't have much to say for this course; it's a primarily hands-on kind of course, where students get put in groups and code projects together. We haven't done any of that yet, and so far it's just been assigned readings.
* **CSCE 181: Introduction to Computing**

    This is a 1-credit-hour online seminar about various topics in computer science presented by faculty and industry professionals.
    We haven't had our first seminar yet, so I also don't have anything to note here.